docs(instances): Fix Buster IPV6 connectivity when routed IP used (#2632)
scaleway/docs-content: compute/instances/troubleshooting/fix-lost-ip-connectivity-on-debian-buster.mdx

---
meta:
  title: Fix lost IPv6 connectivity on old Debian Buster images when migrating to routed IP
  description: This page helps recover or avoid unreachable IPv6 Instances after transitioning to routed IP on older Debian Buster images
content:
  h1: Fix lost IPv6 connectivity on old Debian Buster images when migrating to routed IP
  paragraph: This page helps recover or avoid unreachable IPv6 Instances after transitioning to routed IP on older Debian Buster images
tags: ipv6 routed ip debian buster
dates:

>   validation: tbd
>   posted: tbd

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  validation: 2024-01-22
  posted: 2024-01-22
```

categories:
  - compute
---

> On old Debian Buster images, the installed custom version of cloud-init may interfere with the IPv6 connectivity when the instance has been transitioned to use routed IP. This may be avoided by installing a newer version of cloud-init prior to the migration to routed IP. The procedure is also valid to recover connectivity for an instance already using routed IP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On older Debian Buster images, the installed custom version of `cloud-init` may interfere with the IPv6 connectivity when the Instance has been transitioned to use routed IP. This may be avoided by installing a newer version of cloud-init prior to the migration to routed IP. The procedure is also valid to recover connectivity for an Instance already using routed IP.
```

> The procedure to install the newer cloud-init is as follow :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The procedure to install the newer `cloud-init` is as follow :
```

> The procedure to install the newer `cloud-init` is as follow :

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The procedure to install the newer `cloud-init` is as follows:
```

> The procedure to install the newer `cloud-init` is as follow :

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The procedure to install the newer `cloud-init` is as follows:
```

> * Install the new `debian-stable` PPA

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Install the new `debian-stable` PPA. The URL of the PPA may be configured to use the `noble` series. Make sure that you replace it with `bionic` in the URL. 
```

```
rm -f /etc/apt/sources.list.d/scaleway-ubuntu-stable-bionic.list
add-apt-repository ppa:scaleway/debian-staging
vi /etc/apt/sources.list.d/scaleway-ubuntu-debian-staging-noble.list
Replace `noble` by `bionic`
```

> The URL of the PPA may be configured to use the `noble` serie. This must be change to `bionic` if it is the case. Following this change, a new version of `scaleway-ecosystem` and `cloud-init` may be installed. It is important to clean the previous cloud-init data as the new version contains structure that may cause a failure of cloud-init at the next boot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The URL of the PPA may be configured to use the `noble` serie. This must be change to `bionic` if it is the case. Following this change, a new version of `scaleway-ecosystem` and `cloud-init` may be installed. It is important to clean the previous `cloud-init` data as the new version contains structure that may cause a failure of cloud-init at the next boot.
```

> The URL of the PPA may be configured to use the `noble` series. This must be changed to `bionic` if it is the case. Following this change, a new version of `scaleway-ecosystem` and `cloud-init` may be installed. It is important to clean the previous `cloud-init` data as the new version contains structure that may cause a failure of cloud-init at the next boot.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Following this change, a new version of `scaleway-ecosystem` and `cloud-init` may be installed. It is important to clean the previous `cloud-init` data as the new version contains structure that may cause a failure of cloud-init at the next boot.
```

> The URL of the PPA may be configured to use the `noble` series. This must be changed to `bionic` if it is the case. Following this change, a new version of `scaleway-ecosystem` and `cloud-init` may be installed. It is important to clean the previous `cloud-init` data as the new version contains structure that may cause a failure of cloud-init at the next boot.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The URL of the PPA may be configured to use the `noble` series. This must be changed to `bionic` if it is the case. Following this change, a new version of `scaleway-ecosystem` and `cloud-init` may be installed. It is important to clean the previous `cloud-init` data as the new version contains a structure that may cause a failure of cloud-init at the next boot.
```

```
apt update
apt -y install scaleway-ecosystem cloud-init
cloud-init clean
```

> The server needs to be rebooted for the fix to be active.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Instance requires to be rebooted for the fix to be active.
```

> The Instance must be rebooted for the fix to take effect.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Reboot the Instance for your changes to be taken into effect.
```
